README.md, before:

# NVIDIA CUDA powered Docker with PETSc for FEniCS and dolfin-adjoint

This repository contains the scripts for building a CUDA powered Docker image for [FEniCS](http://fenicsproject.org) with [dolfin-adjoint](http://www.dolfin-adjoint.org/). This is done by using the original Docker files of the fenicsproject, which can be found at [fenics-project/docker](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/) and expand these with the [NVIDIA CUDA Docker Images](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda) and the [dolfin-adjoint/docker](https://bitbucket.org/dolfin-adjoint/dolfin-adjoint/src/master/docker/dolfin-adjoint/).


## Requirements on host PC
1. Nvidia GPU with CUDA support on Host/Server
2. 3. [NVIDIA CUDA driver on Host OS](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions#how-do-i-install-the-nvidia-driver)
3. [Docker Engine on Host OS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
4. [NVIDIA Container Toolkit on Host OS](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#setting-up-nvidia-container-toolkit)

![Implementation of CUDA in Docker containers, image from NVIDIA](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3028125/12213714/5b208976-b632-11e5-8406-38d379ec46aa.png)

## Notes
1. Currently only tested on Host PC with Host OS Ubuntu 20.04 x64_86

## Implementation
1. The [fenics-project/docker base](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/src/master/dockerfiles/base/) image is build. This is an image with a Container OS User Space based on Ubuntu 18.04 x86-64.
2. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [CUDA 10.1 base image for Ubuntu 18.04 x86_64](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/10.1/ubuntu18.04-x86_64/base/Dockerfile)
3. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [CUDA 10.1 runtime image for Ubuntu 18.04 x86_64](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/10.1/ubuntu18.04-x86_64/runtime/Dockerfile)
4. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [CUDA 10.1 devel image for Ubuntu 18.04 x86_64](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/10.1/ubuntu18.04-x86_64/devel/Dockerfile)
5. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [fenics-project/docker dev-env](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/src/master/dockerfiles/dev-env/) image, which builds PETSc with CUDA support.
6. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [fenics-project/docker stable](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/src/master/dockerfiles/stable/) image, which builds fenics.
7. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [dolfin-adjoint/docker](https://bitbucket.org/dolfin-adjoint/dolfin-adjoint/src/master/docker/dolfin-adjoint/) image, which builds dolfin-adjoint

This now gives us an image with the fenics applications, which is able to utilize the NVIDIA GPU on the Server. A container can be run by the adjusted.

## Usage
An adapted version of the `fenicsproject` helper script is provided in `bin/fenicsgpuproject`. Place this file in `.local/bin` to use the container as described in [Fenics container quickstart](https://fenics.readthedocs.io/projects/containers/en/latest/quickstart.html).

## Propoperties of Docker image
* Container OS User Space: Ubuntu 18.04 x64_86
* CUDA Driver version 10.1
* PETSc version X.XX --with-cuda
* fenics version 2019
* dolfin-adjoint master
    
## Authors
* Jack S. Hale (<jack.hale@uni.lu>)
* Lizao Li (<lzlarryli@gmail.com>)
* Garth N. Wells (<gnw20@cam.ac.uk>)
* NVIDIA CORPORATION (<cudatools@nvidia.com>)
* Coen Bakker

Commit message:

Update Readme with usage and install information

README.md, after:

# NVIDIA CUDA powered Docker with PETSc for FEniCS and dolfin-adjoint

This repository contains the scripts for building a CUDA powered Docker image for [FEniCS](http://fenicsproject.org) with [dolfin-adjoint](http://www.dolfin-adjoint.org/). This is done by using the original Docker files of the fenicsproject, which can be found at [fenics-project/docker](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/) and expand these with the [NVIDIA CUDA Docker Images](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda) and the [dolfin-adjoint/docker](https://bitbucket.org/dolfin-adjoint/dolfin-adjoint/src/master/docker/dolfin-adjoint/) with [ipopt](https://github.com/coin-or/Ipopt) powered by [HSL](https://www.hsl.rl.ac.uk/ipopt/). 

## Requirements on host PC
1. Nvidia GPU with CUDA support on Host/Server
2. [NVIDIA CUDA driver on Host OS](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions#how-do-i-install-the-nvidia-driver)
3. [Docker Engine on Host OS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
4. [NVIDIA Container Toolkit on Host OS](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#setting-up-nvidia-container-toolkit)

![Implementation of CUDA in Docker containers, image from NVIDIA](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3028125/12213714/5b208976-b632-11e5-8406-38d379ec46aa.png)

## Notes
1. Currently only tested on Host PC with Host OS Ubuntu 20.04 x64_86

## Implementation
1. The [fenics-project/docker base](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/src/master/dockerfiles/base/) image is build. This is an image with a Container OS User Space based on Ubuntu 18.04 x86-64.
2. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [CUDA 10.1 base image for Ubuntu 18.04 x86_64](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/10.1/ubuntu18.04-x86_64/base/Dockerfile)
3. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [CUDA 10.1 runtime image for Ubuntu 18.04 x86_64](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/10.1/ubuntu18.04-x86_64/runtime/Dockerfile)
4. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [CUDA 10.1 devel image for Ubuntu 18.04 x86_64](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/10.1/ubuntu18.04-x86_64/devel/Dockerfile)
5. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [fenics-project/docker dev-env](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/src/master/dockerfiles/dev-env/) image, which builds PETSc with CUDA support.
6. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [fenics-project/docker stable](https://bitbucket.org/fenics-project/docker/src/master/dockerfiles/stable/) image, which builds fenics.
7. The previous image is expanded with an adjusted version of the [dolfin-adjoint/docker](https://bitbucket.org/dolfin-adjoint/dolfin-adjoint/src/master/docker/dolfin-adjoint/) image, which builds dolfin-adjoint, ipopt and HSL

This now gives us an image with the fenics applications, which is able to utilize the NVIDIA GPU on the Server. A container can be run by the adjusted.

## Install
1. Request the full academic version of HSL via https://www.hsl.rl.ac.uk/ipopt/. This can take up to a day. Note: Most optimization problems with dolfin-adjoint will not run with the HSL-archive version. 
2. Clone this repository `git clone --branch dolfin-adjoint https://github.com/coen1111/cuda-petsc-fenics-docker.git`
3. Place the retrieved `hsl-*.tar.gz` in the folder`dockerfiles/dolfin-adjoint`
4. Using a terminal run `./built.sh`
5. Done, if the Docker container was build succesfully

## Usage
An adapted version of the `fenicsproject` helper script is provided in `bin/fenicsgpuproject`. Place this file in `.local/bin` to use the container as described in [Fenics container quickstart](https://fenics.readthedocs.io/projects/containers/en/latest/quickstart.html). It may be required to log off and log on again before this file is recognized.

To use the Docker container with this helper script
1. Using a terminal `cd` to a folder, which is not the home (`~`) folder
3. Run `fenicsgpuproject run ubuntu18.04:x86_64-base-cuda-10.1-runtime-devel-PETSc-fenics-dolfin-adjoint`

## Propoperties of Docker image
* Container OS User Space: Ubuntu 18.04 x64_86
* CUDA Driver version 10.1
* PETSc version X.XX --with-cuda
* fenics version 2019
* dolfin-adjoint master
* ipopt version 3.12.9
* HSL latest
    
## Authors
* Jack S. Hale (<jack.hale@uni.lu>)
* Lizao Li (<lzlarryli@gmail.com>)
* Garth N. Wells (<gnw20@cam.ac.uk>)
* NVIDIA CORPORATION (<cudatools@nvidia.com>)
* Coen Bakker
